Zoph FAQ

1 Troubleshooting

  1.1 After logging in I get the following error: "Fatal error: Call to
  undefined function: mysql_pconnect()". What's wrong?

   You may need to install the php-mysql module (rpms and debs are
   available).

  1.2 I can log in but when I try to view any other page I get: "Fatal error:
  The script tried to execute a method or access a property of an incomplete
  object. Please ensure that the class definition user of the object you are
  trying to operate on was loaded _before_ the session was started in
  /var/www/zoph/auth.inc.php on line 64".

   This can happen when a session is automatically started at the
   beginning of a request. You can fix this by disabling
   session.auto_start in your php.ini or by inserting a call to
   session_write_close() before the call to session_start() in
   auth.inc.php.

  1.3 When I try to load zoph.sql in MySQL I get the following error: "ERROR
  1121 at line 81: Column 'last_name' is used with UNIQUE or INDEX but is not
  defined as NOT NULL".

   The ability to have an index on a column that can be null was added in
   MySQL 3.23. If you are using an older version you may see this error.

   You can either upgrade MySQL or try to get around it by removing all
   KEY lines in zoph.sql that correspond to a column not marked NOT NULL.
   For example, the keys for first_name and last_name would have to be
   removed.

  1.4 I'm trying to use the importer from the web but I get this error: "Fatal
  error: Call to undefined function: imagecreatefromjpeg()".

   To use the importer you need the GD 2 library for image creation
   support in PHP. See the REQUIREMENTS doc for more info.

  1.5 The web importer works but why aren't the EXIF tags in my photos being
  extracted?

   Reading the EXIF header requires at least PHP 4.2, when the
   read_exif_data() function was introduced.

  1.6 I'm trying to run Zoph 0.2[.1] with PHP 4.2.x. Why isn't it working?

   To get Zoph to work nicely with PHP 4.2, either install Zoph 0.3 or
   enable register_globals in your php.ini file.

  1.7 Why can't the webserver find images in which there are spaces or special
  characters in the path?

   This problem should be fixed in Zoph 0.3. In prior versions, only the
   image name and not the entire path were properly encoded.

  1.8 I moved my photos around after I loaded them and now I see broken images.
  How can I fix them?

   If you move images to a different directory you'll start seeing broken
   images in Zoph unless you also update the 'path' field in the
   database.

   If you edit a photo, at the bottom of the page you'll see a 'show
   additional attributes' link. That will let you edit the path for a
   photo.

   If you're moving a bunch of photos, you may want to just create a list
   of their names as you are relocating them and then change all the
   paths at once from within MySQL:

   mysql> update photos set path = 'new_path' where name in
   ('photo1.jpg', 'photo2.jpg');

  1.9 If I try to change my password I get locked out of Zoph! What's going on?

   This bug should be fixed in Zoph 0.3. Previously, your password was
   being set to 'password' the string instead of whatever you wanted
   (stupid bug). Before, in order to reset a password you would have to
   do so within MySQL:

   mysql> update users set password = password('new_password') where
   user_id = X;

  1.10 Jhead complains (non fatally) when parsing my images. Is there a way to
  suppress that?

   A user with a FotoCanvas 11 camera mentioned this problem and pointed
   out the -se flag to jhead (which first appeared in version 1.7):

   -se Suppress error messages relating to corrupt exif header structure.

   Add this flag to the call to jhead in zophImport.pl to fix this
   problem.

  1.11 Why does Zoph choke when it tries to load the languages (line 88 of
  rtplang.class.php)?

   This can happen when the line endings in the language files get messed
   up. One user reported this happening when extracting the zoph package
   using Windows. If this happens, make sure there are UNIX style (\n not
   \r\n) line endings in the files.

  1.12 Can I use Zoph without having to enable cookies?

   Zoph will work without cookies but you have to enable
   session.use_trans_sid in your php.ini file so that url rewriting will
   work. Starting with PHP 4.2.0 this parameter is disabled by default.

  1.13 Why do I see some English phrases when I'm using a translation (e.g.
  "[vo] that have been categorized")?

   Some language files are missing a few translations. Many, but not all,
   are shown in italics and preceded by [vo]. To fix this simply open the
   correct language file in the lang/ directory and add a transltions of
   the missing string (the English string should already be present in
   the file). If you make an additions please send me an email
   (zoph@nother.net). Check http://www.nother.net/zoph#translations for
   updated language packs.

  1.14 Why do I see a bunch of code when I try to access Zoph?

   First, check to make sure that you have an AddType line for php files
   in your httpd.conf file. This is described in the INSTALL document.

   If your Apache configuration is correct, check your php.ini to make
   sure short_open_tag is set to On. With short_open_tag off "<?" is not
   recognized as a valid script tag (like "<?php"). Since Zoph uses "<?"
   in many places, this causes the templates to fail to execute. You may
   have this problem if you install RedHat 8 as their default php.ini
   seems to have changed so that short_open_tag is disabled. Note: as of
   Zoph 0.3.3 short_open_tag is no longer required to be on.

  1.15 I've managed to get Zoph running in Windows but zophImport.pl only can
  load one file at a time. If I try to execute "zophImport.pl *.jpg" I get a
  message saying "Not a file: *.jpg". What's going on?

   I believe this happens because the DOS/Windows shell does not expand
   wildcards and so the *.jpg is passed unchanged to the perl script. I
   would recommend using another shell like bash. This can easily be done
   by installing something like CygWin.

2 Customization

  2.1 Can I get Zoph to take up my whole browser window rather than that little
  rectangle?

   Try setting DEFAULT_TABLE_WIDTH in config.inc.php to "100%".

  2.2 Can I customize the name/title used in the interface?

   Set ZOPH_TITLE in config.inc.php to whatever you want. This is what
   appears on the logon page, on the home page, and in the title of every
   page.

  2.3 I don't like your welcome screen, your instructions on the import page,
  or your use of English in general.

   You could edit the templates so that Zoph says just what you want. A
   better alternative is perhaps to create your own custom translation.
   Create a file in the lang/ directory that maps English to English and
   tweak whatever phrases you want. For example:

   Welcome %s. %s currently contains=Go away %s. %s isn't for you.

3 Miscellaneous

  3.1 How do you pronounce Zoph?

   I say Zoph like software (it's Zophtware). But you can Zoph with an O
   like in photos or however you like.

  3.2 What license is Zoph released under?

   Zoph used to be licensed under the modified BSD license. As of version 0.4
   this has been changed to the GPL license. We have done our best to make sure
   all the code in Zoph could be changed to this license. If you feel your copyright
   has been violated with this change, please contact us a.s.a.p.
   Some included files have their own license because the license doen not allow us
   to change it to GPL:
   - rtplang.class.php
   - mimePart.php
   - htmlMimeMail.php
   - smtp.php
   - RFC822.php
   - Any files in the contrib directory.
   Please see those files for license information. For all other files,
   please refer to the file COPYING.
