Zoph 0.8 Readme
9 September 2009

1. Introduction

   Zoph (Zoph Organizes Photos) is a web based digital image presentation
   and management system. In other words, a photo album. It is built with
   PHP, MySQL and Perl.

   Many people store their photos in the digital equivalent of a shoe box:
   lots of directories with names like 'Holiday 2008', 'January 2005' or
   even 'Photos034'. Like shoe boxes, this is a great way to put your
   photos away, but not such a great way to find them back or even look at
   them. Zoph can help you to store your photos and keep them organized.

   While most photo album projects are primarily targeted at showing your
   photos to others, Zoph is primarily targeted at keeping your photos
   organized for yourself, giving you granular control over what you'd 
   like to show to others, on a per-album or even a per-photo basis.

   If you just want to generate a gallery of thumbnails from a bunch of
   images, you may want to try one of the other numerous photo album
   projects. But if you want to also store additional information about
   your photos, search them, or control access to them, take a look at Zoph.

2. Installation

   Read the REQUIREMENTS, INSTALL docs.  If you are upgrading
   skip to the UPGRADE document.

   More documentation can be found on http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/zoph

3. Copying

   Zoph is free software.  It is released under the GPL license. Please 
   read the file COPYING for more details

4. Feedback
   
   Please send feedback to zoph@zoph.org.  Releases can be found at
   http://www.zoph.org

5. Thanks

   Zoph makes use of the following packages, for which I thank their authors
   for making available:

   HTML Mime Mail class by Richard Heyes
   http://www.phpguru.org/mime.mail.html

   PHP Calendar class by David Wilkinson
   http://www.cascade.org.uk/software/php/calendar/index.php

   Rycks Translation Project by Eric Seigne
   (website no longer available)   

   Mapstraction Mapping abstraction project
   http://www.mapstraction.org
   
   For a list of individuals who have contributed fixes, improvements or
   translations, click on the 'about' tab within Zoph.
